# Remote-Handling-Robotic-System

Abstract:

In this work, we present the implementation of a system based on convolutional neural networks (CNN) for the localization and pose estimation of objects from RGB images, applicable in real environments for robotic grasping, considering the specific conditions of the IFMIF-DONES project. A comprehensive study of state-of-the-art architectures was conducted to select the most suitable topology for this task, as well as a review of commonly used datasets and metrics, for performance evaluation and comparison. We developed a methodology that leverages simulation environments to generate randomized synthetic RGB images and ground truth data using CAD models provided by the IFMIF-DONES RH laboratory. These environments facilitated the generation of a significant amount of training data, reducing the reliance on hard to obtain real-world data in early stages. The system was deployed and integrated with other technologies in a real scenario, where it was employed for real-world data collection and processing images of a physical 3D-printed mockup derived from one of the CAD models.

The system’s performance was evaluated using standard pose estimation metrics, using alternative technologies for comparison, such as the Vicon motion capture system. The model demonstrated difficulties transitioning to real scenario, especially for the low definition camera used to simulate the poor image quality provided by rad-hard cameras. Additionally, improvements were made to the model based on data collected in the real-world laboratory setup, achieving satisfactory results and performance improvements in the real scenario.

We analyzed the effects of radiation on camera sensors and the resulting noise in the images, examining its impact on model accuracy. This analysis introduced the concept of predictive maintenance, identifying the noise levels at which the model’s performance significantly deteriorates, offering insights into when the system may require intervention. Lastly, a successful robotic grasping test was carried out utilizing the system’s implementation and tuned models, proving the usefulness of this technology for robotic grasping & handling tasks.

- TFM_RicardoShepstoneAramburu: This is the thesis report. It consists of a long document detailing the fundamentals of this proyect, the research methodology, the main carried out experiments and the obtained results, with an extensive analysis and commentary.
